README.md, before:

# Running custom applications in CDSW/CML

With the recent addition of [Analytical Applications](https://docs.cloudera.com/documentation/data-science-workbench/1-7-x/topics/cdsw_analytical_applications.html), data scientists and data engineers can now deploy their own custom applications and share them with other users.

Whilst simple applications may have all necessary code already baked into one script file, more complicated applications may require custom launchers, run flags that are set on execution of launchers and the like. In order to run these sorts of applications, we can leverage the Python `subprocess` in order to run the commands that we would normally have entered in the terminal

# Getting Started

For this demonstration, I will show how to run [Tensorboard](https://www.tensorflow.org/tensorboard) and [Hiplot](https://facebookresearch.github.io/hiplot/index.html) which both allow for the visualisation of parameters from multiple runs of deep learning models.

Both applications rely on a custom command to trigger them as standalone applications `tensorboard` for Tensorboard and `hiplot` for Hiplot.

## Requirements

- CDSW 1.7.1 or later
- Python 3 engines with web access available

## Setup

Click Create Project:

![Create Project][CreateProject]

Click Open Workbench:

![Open Workbench][OpenWorkbench]


Launch New Python Session:

![Start Session][StartingSession]

Run:

```bash
!pip3 install hiplot tensorboard
```

![Install Packages][InstallPackages]

Packages that are installed in a session will be preserved for use by the project across all sessions

Create run script to start the app: 

```python

# Hiplot
import os
import subprocess

subprocess.call(['hiplot', '--host', '127.0.0.1', 
                 '--port', os.environ['CDSW_APP_PORT']
                ])

```

I save this out as `run-hiplot.py`

The `os.environ["CDSW_APP_PORT]` calls the environment variable `CDSW_APP_PORT` which specifies which port the application must use in order to run successfully.

```python

# Tensorboard
import os
import subprocess

subprocess.call(["tensorboard", " --logdir", "logs/fit", "--host", "127.0.0.1",
               "--port", os.environ["CDSW_APP_PORT"]]) 

```
I save this out as `run-tensorboard.py`

Notice that adding a flag is as simple as adding the flag and its setting sd part of the comma separated list within the `subprocess.call([ ... ])` command

# Running applications that require flags

Now that we have the script, we can go ahead and trigger as an application:

Go the applications screen:

![Applications Button][ApplicationsMenu]

Create New Application:

![New Applications][NewApplications]

Fill in the form:

![Application Form][ApplicationsForm]

Note the option to `Set Environment Variables`just before Create Application. Leveraging `os.environ['']` and the ability to set environment variables from the New Application screen, it is still possible to edit run flags without editing the `run` script.

Click Create:

![Application Created][ApplicationCreated]


To access the application, click the box with the arrow.

![Application Running][ApplicationRun]

# Conclusion

The new Analytical Applications function, rolled out in [CDSW 1.7.1](https://docs.cloudera.com/documentation/data-science-workbench/1-7-x/topics/cdsw_analytical_applications.html#cdsw_overview) and availabe in [CML - Public Cloud](https://docs.cloudera.com/machine-learning/cloud/applications/topics/ml-applications.html) enables the deployment of third party and custom applications on the Cloudera Machine Learning infrastructure.

Through the use of the python `subprocess` module it is possible to execute arbitrary code and set runtime flags for applications as well.

[CreateProject]: screenshots/CreateProject.png
[OpenWorkbench]: screenshots/OpenWorkbench.png
[StartingSession]: screenshots/StartingSession.png
[InstallPackages]: screenshots/InstallPackages.png
[ApplicationsMenu]: screenshots/ApplicationsButton.png
[NewApplications]: screenshots/NewApplications.png
[ApplicationsForm]: screenshots/ApplicationForm.png
[ApplicationCreated]: screenshots/ApplicationCreated.png
[ApplicationRun]: screenshots/ApplicationScreen.png

Commit message:

added requirements and updated create to pull from git instead

README.md, after:

# Running custom applications in CDSW/CML

With the recent addition of [Analytical Applications](https://docs.cloudera.com/documentation/data-science-workbench/1-7-x/topics/cdsw_analytical_applications.html), data scientists and data engineers can now deploy their own custom applications and share them with other users.

Whilst simple applications may have all necessary code already baked into one script file, more complicated applications may require custom launchers, run flags that are set on execution of launchers and the like. In order to run these sorts of applications, we can leverage the Python `subprocess` in order to run the commands that we would normally have entered in the terminal

# Getting Started

For this demonstration, I will show how to run [Tensorboard](https://www.tensorflow.org/tensorboard) and [Hiplot](https://facebookresearch.github.io/hiplot/index.html) which both allow for the visualisation of parameters from multiple runs of deep learning models.

Both applications rely on a custom command to trigger them as standalone applications `tensorboard` for Tensorboard and `hiplot` for Hiplot.

## Requirements

- CDSW 1.7.1 or later
- Python 3 engines with web access available

## Setup

Click Create Project:

![Create Project][CreateProject]

Clone from: https://github.com/fastforwardlabs/running-custom-applications

Click Open Workbench:

![Open Workbench][OpenWorkbench]


Launch New Python Session:

![Start Session][StartingSession]

Run:

```bash
!pip3 install hiplot tensorboard
```

![Install Packages][InstallPackages]

Packages that are installed in a session will be preserved for use by the project across all sessions

I have created two run scripts to start the apps: 

For Hiplot:

```python

# Hiplot
import os
import subprocess

subprocess.call(['hiplot', '--host', '127.0.0.1', 
                 '--port', os.environ['CDSW_APP_PORT']
                ])

```

I save this out as `run-hiplot.py`

The `os.environ["CDSW_APP_PORT]` calls the environment variable `CDSW_APP_PORT` which specifies which port the application must use in order to run successfully.

For Tensorboard:

```python

# Tensorboard
import os
import subprocess

subprocess.call(["tensorboard", " --logdir", "logs/fit", "--host", "127.0.0.1",
               "--port", os.environ["CDSW_APP_PORT"]]) 

```
I save this out as `run-tensorboard.py`

Notice that adding a flag is as simple as adding the flag and its setting sd part of the comma separated list within the `subprocess.call([ ... ])` command

First we need to make sure that all the required libraries are installed. From the CML/CDSW IDE run:

`!pip3 install  -r requirements.txt`



# Running applications that require flags

Now that we have the script, we can go ahead and trigger as an application:

Go the applications screen:

![Applications Button][ApplicationsMenu]

Create New Application:

![New Applications][NewApplications]

Fill in the form:

![Application Form][ApplicationsForm]

Note the option to `Set Environment Variables`just before Create Application. Leveraging `os.environ['']` and the ability to set environment variables from the New Application screen, it is still possible to edit run flags without editing the `run` script.

Click Create:

![Application Created][ApplicationCreated]


To access the application, click the box with the arrow.

![Application Running][ApplicationRun]

# Conclusion

The new Analytical Applications function, rolled out in [CDSW 1.7.1](https://docs.cloudera.com/documentation/data-science-workbench/1-7-x/topics/cdsw_analytical_applications.html#cdsw_overview) and availabe in [CML - Public Cloud](https://docs.cloudera.com/machine-learning/cloud/applications/topics/ml-applications.html) enables the deployment of third party and custom applications on the Cloudera Machine Learning infrastructure.

Through the use of the python `subprocess` module it is possible to execute arbitrary code and set runtime flags for applications as well.

[CreateProject]: screenshots/CreateProject.png
[OpenWorkbench]: screenshots/OpenWorkbench.png
[StartingSession]: screenshots/StartingSession.png
[InstallPackages]: screenshots/InstallPackages.png
[ApplicationsMenu]: screenshots/ApplicationsButton.png
[NewApplications]: screenshots/NewApplications.png
[ApplicationsForm]: screenshots/ApplicationForm.png
[ApplicationCreated]: screenshots/ApplicationCreated.png
[ApplicationRun]: screenshots/ApplicationScreen.png
